now that they're pregnant with the next
generation of recruits the females
thoughts turned to building a solid
predator resistance headquarters where
they can raise them
these squirreled rays are warm and
waterproof an outer layer of interwoven
twigs with an inner lining of moss
leaves feral feathers it can take
several days and a lot of hard work to
build this brushwood bivy but the effort
is worth it a well-built HQ will ask for
several months and give new recruits the
best possible start the females settle
in and vigorously defend the dray
against all comers by setting up a
temporary perimeter they prevent
interference with their young and
reserve local supplies for their new
families
six weeks after the long chase through
the trees and in the comfortable safety
of a brushwood billy baby squirrels are
finally born
[Music]
initially they're blind and helpless but
the tours vital equipment for a treetop
lifestyle are already well developed
[Music]
[Applause]
and three to four weeks they're no
longer naked they are increasingly
active their fur has grown and their
eyes begin to open
[Music]
at about six weeks they're ready to take
their first tentative steps outside and
by eight weeks they're exploring their
new world in earnest
[Applause]
a young squirrels first missions outside
the nest are fraught with danger
in this new world as much to be
frightened of but the new recruits can't
cover forever
some things like the hot our office a
deadly others are frightening but in
reality quite harmless